Physics, life cycle physics, simulate and time dilation in this video will cover the structure of
unity projects, the role of mono behaviors inside unity and the code of behavior for physics.
So how is Unity structured?
Unity Structure from the highest level.
You have a project with seen inside the scene.
There are one or more game objects, and on each game object you have C-sharp components.
C-sharp components are of a data type unity engine.
My behavior.
In this course, I will refer to components and behaviors as the same thing.
As the image shows, we have a game object in the center with many possible components around it, and
those game objects fit inside the game world.
Understanding behaviors is critical to understanding unity behaviors.
To attach your code class to a game object, you have to extend mono behavior much, but not all of
your code will extend from mono behaviors.
Mono behaviors come with powerful built in functions with a predictable execution order.
This execution order of mono behaviors is very important in game development.
We'll talk about runtime.
That's the execution order.
While your game is running for your players in the image on the right, you can see there's many, many
different execution order functions.
Let's zoom in a little bit.
On the top half, we can see major sections, initialization, physics, input events and more.
Each of these is a function that unity will call for us and we can optionally listen in.
The key ones for us are awake.
Start fixed update trigger and collision events and update if we look below.
The diagram continues.
There's scene rendering, pausing and decommissioning.
Here our focus is on on destroy.
Together the execution order of Monte behavior functions that we care about are listed here awake and
start are called once and early in the project's life in the middle and bold.
We've got several key ones related to physics.
Fixed update is called once per physics tick.
It's important that this is independent of the frame rate, so we get dependable results on trigger
events and on collision events.
We'll talk about those more later.
But there, when our physics world objects are overlapping, how we can listen in on that update is
called once per frame.
That's the main workhorse function for most of our code except physics.
Code on destroy is called when the game object is deleted or when the game world ends.
Here's an example template file I created for which we can code.
Now this is C code, and we could declare this in unity and it would run well.
There's not much happening here.
There's just empty function declarations.
But I just want to show you the signature, how these are set up.
And it's important to note that you wouldn't need to declare all of these only if you want to wait and
update.
Just declare those, too.
But I'm showing you a complete template here to get started.
Let's look at a demo so we can see this template in action.
We'll run the behavior template, we'll see the scene, we'll add a debug log statement so that we're
able to see which parts of the code we've reached and we'll test a trigger in a collision event.
Let's go ahead and open up assets.
Section one, Video five of Behavior template.
In this scene.
We've got one cube floating over the floor.
In addition to Box Collider and rigid body.
We can see we have Monarch Behavior template script.
Let's go ahead and click that.
That'll open it in your favorite code editor.
Now, here from the top, we can see all of the different methods we've already discussed here.
Inside the awake, we have a debug log statement and again inside the on collision enter and inside
the destroy debug log will send a little bit of text into a window inside unity just to confirm that
we've reached that point in the code.
Let's go ahead and run the scene.
Down here in the console window, we can see the wake up and the collision happened.
And then once I stopped the scene and all objects would be cleaned up, we can see the destroy.
You can see that the collision enter.
It says the cube was hit by the floor.
And that's just showing us the name Cube here as hit the name floor here.
That's the kind of detection you can do using physics.
Let's talk about time dilation.
Now.
If you want to create something like a slowdown effect that you see in a movie like The Matrix or in
a game like Max Payne, where the whole world is slowing down to simulate a more dramatic moment.
You can simulate that in physics.
What we do is we turn physics, auto simulation to false, and then we manually simulate physics ourselves.
This is the key.
We're waiting for a certain amount of time before we bother to call physics simulate.
Now in our projects and probably in your projects, you don't need to do this.
I just want to talk about it a little bit about the time dilation so that you understand that typically
unity runs in a realistic way for Earth's gravity and we don't need to simulate physics manually.
But here's how you can do it if you need to.
In the next section.
Unity two D Physics components.